# Solving-4x4-Sudoku-with-Grover-s-Algorithm
Using qiskit, we solve a 4x4 sudoku puzzle by implementing Grover's Algorithm.  The code includes the creation of a diffuser and two oracles, one which solves a true sudoku (but requires too much computing power for hard puzzles) and one which actually solves Latin Squares puzzles, but allows for more empty cells.  The code requires that the input already be a valid puzzle with only one solution and does not test that these conditions are satisfied.

Both oracles require a circuit with a quantum register of size 2*(number of empty cells), since the numbers 0-3 must be represented by two bits in binary and a solution just needs to fill the empty cells.  They also will have an ancilla register of size 1 which marks when a solution has been found, as well as some other ancilla registers for condition checking and computations.

Oracle 1 solves a sudoku puzzle by testing constraints given by ordered pairs, ensuring that any two cells in each row, column, and block are not the same.  Thus it requires a list of these conditions and a circuit with an ancilla register of size len(conditions list).  The oracle works by determining if a given state satisfies all of the conditions, and if it does, marks that state as the correct state (by flipping the sign of |1>).

Oracle 2 solves a latin squares puzzle by creating lists of possible cell value permutations for each row and column, then checking if a given state is one of these permutations for each row and column.  Thus is requires an ancilla register of size 8.  The oracle works by determining if a given state fits a permutation for all rows and columns, and it does, it marks that state.

The diffuser is the same for both oracles as it only is appended to the part of the circuit which represents the empty cells in the puzzle.  

The algorithm which computes and returns the solution is also very similar for both oracles, altered slightly since oracle 1 and oracle 2 require different circuits.

This algorithm includes the function solving_sodoku, which takes the number of empty spaces in the puzzle (sp), the number of total qubits required of the system (ie 2*(number of empty spaces in the puzzle), the length of the conditions list (differing only if oracle_1 or oracle_2 is used), and the number of ancilla registers neeed for computation (again differing for oracle_1 and oracle_2)) (num_q), the number of possible values a cell can  take (ie 4 for the 4x4 puzzle) (number_of_values), and the maximum number of iterations for the algorithm (max_iterations).  This function takes data extracted from the puzzle and implements Grover's algorithm, returning a string of size 2*sp which is the most probable solution to the puzzle.

The last function implemented is decode_solution, which takes a string of size 2*sp (double the size of the number of empty spaces in the puzzle) which should be the solution outputted by solving_sodoku (solution), the locations of the empty spaces in the puzzle when it has been converted into a 4x4 array (location_b), and the original puzzle represented as a 4x4 array (A).  The function then takes the solution and returns the binary values to base 10 numbers and puts them in the proper empty cell.  The function outputs the solved puzzle.

This code uses a single puzzle with two empty cells as an example, but the puzzle can be adapted to test solutions for other puzzles as long as the number of empty cells for the first oracle is less than approximatly 4 (to make sure code can actually run with standard memory) and the number of empty cells for the second oracle is less than 8 (to make sure code can run with standard memory).  This can be done by simply changing A in the third code block, then running everything after.
